doc/README-template.md, before:

# debug_assert [![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/conan.io-debug_assert%2F1.0-green.svg?logo=data:image/png;base64%2CiVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAA4AAAAOCAMAAAAolt3jAAAA1VBMVEUAAABhlctjlstkl8tlmMtlmMxlmcxmmcxnmsxpnMxpnM1qnc1sn85voM91oM11oc1xotB2oc56pNF6pNJ2ptJ8ptJ8ptN9ptN8p9N5qNJ9p9N9p9R8qtOBqdSAqtOAqtR%2BrNSCrNJ/rdWDrNWCsNWCsNaJs9eLs9iRvNuVvdyVv9yXwd2Zwt6axN6dxt%2Bfx%2BChyeGiyuGjyuCjyuGly%2BGlzOKmzOGozuKoz%2BKqz%2BOq0OOv1OWw1OWw1eWx1eWy1uay1%2Baz1%2Baz1%2Bez2Oe02Oe12ee22ujUGwH3AAAAAXRSTlMAQObYZgAAAAFiS0dEAIgFHUgAAAAJcEhZcwAACxMAAAsTAQCanBgAAAAHdElNRQfgBQkREyOxFIh/AAAAiklEQVQI12NgAAMbOwY4sLZ2NtQ1coVKWNvoc/Eq8XDr2wB5Ig62ekza9vaOqpK2TpoMzOxaFtwqZua2Bm4makIM7OzMAjoaCqYuxooSUqJALjs7o4yVpbowvzSUy87KqSwmxQfnsrPISyFzWeWAXCkpMaBVIC4bmCsOdgiUKwh3JojLgAQ4ZCE0AMm2D29tZwe6AAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)](http://www.conan.io/source/debug_assert/1.0/Manu343726/testing)

debug_assert is a simple, C++11, header-only library that provides a very flexible `DEBUG_ASSERT()` macro.
How many times did you write an assertion macro yourself, because `assert()` is controlled globally and cannot be enabled for certain parts of the program only?
This library solves the problem by providing a flexible, modular assertion macro.

## Features

* No dependencies. It only requires `std::abort()` and - unless `DEBUG_ASSERT_NO_STDIO` is defined - `std::fprintf()`.
* Single, small header file that just needs to be copied into your own project.
* Customizable assertion handling - assertion failure will call a user-defined function, with user-defined arguments.
* Modular - enable or disable assertions for different parts of the same program.
* Support for levels - give levels to your assertion macro and only enable certain levels of assertions.
* Little preprocessor use - just a single assertion macro which is needed to get the stringified expression and source location. Enabling/Disabling is controlled by compile time programming instead of preprocessor conditionals.
* Fast - even though a disabled assertion will still expand to something,
there is no overhead with even basic optimizations enabled and very little without optimization (just the code to read `__FILE__` and `__LINE__`). To be precise: It will only evaluate the assertion expression if the assertion is enabled!

## Overview

The basic usage of the library is like so:

```cpp
DEBUG_ASSERT(1 + 1 == 2, my_module{}); // basic
DEBUG_ASSERT(1 + 1 == 2, my_module{}, debug_assert::level<2>{}); // with level
```

Where `my_module` is a user-defined tag type that will both control the assertion level and the handler code.
It looks like this:

```cpp
struct my_module
: debug_assert::default_handler, // use the default handler
  debug_assert::set_level<-1> // level -1, i.e. all assertions, 0 would mean none, 1 would be level 1, 2 level 2 or lower,...
{};
```

A module handler must have `static` function `handle()` that takes a `debug_assert::source_location`, the stringified expression and any additional arguments you pass to `DEBUG_ASSERT()` (besides the `debug_assert::level`).

See `example.cpp` for more information and [read the blogpost](https://foonathan.github.io/blog/2016/09/16/assertions.html).

### CMake

For convenience you can also use CMake to setup the include directory, set the C++11 flag and have options that map to the customizable macros.
Simple call `add_subdirectory(path/to/debug_assert)` and then `target_link_libraries(my_target PUBLIC debug_assert)`.
It will not actually build something, only setup the flags.
The options are named like the macros.

## Documentation

> Generated by [standardese](https://github.com/foonathan/standardese).

{{ standardese_doc $file commonmark }}

## Acknowledgements

Thanks a lot to [@Manu343726](https://github.com/Manu343726) and [@verri](https://github.com/verri).

Commit message:

[breaking] Don't set C++11 flag in cmake
It is difficult to set a higher C++ standard later.

doc/README-template.md, after:

# debug_assert [![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/conan.io-debug_assert%2F1.0-green.svg?logo=data:image/png;base64%2CiVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAA4AAAAOCAMAAAAolt3jAAAA1VBMVEUAAABhlctjlstkl8tlmMtlmMxlmcxmmcxnmsxpnMxpnM1qnc1sn85voM91oM11oc1xotB2oc56pNF6pNJ2ptJ8ptJ8ptN9ptN8p9N5qNJ9p9N9p9R8qtOBqdSAqtOAqtR%2BrNSCrNJ/rdWDrNWCsNWCsNaJs9eLs9iRvNuVvdyVv9yXwd2Zwt6axN6dxt%2Bfx%2BChyeGiyuGjyuCjyuGly%2BGlzOKmzOGozuKoz%2BKqz%2BOq0OOv1OWw1OWw1eWx1eWy1uay1%2Baz1%2Baz1%2Bez2Oe02Oe12ee22ujUGwH3AAAAAXRSTlMAQObYZgAAAAFiS0dEAIgFHUgAAAAJcEhZcwAACxMAAAsTAQCanBgAAAAHdElNRQfgBQkREyOxFIh/AAAAiklEQVQI12NgAAMbOwY4sLZ2NtQ1coVKWNvoc/Eq8XDr2wB5Ig62ekza9vaOqpK2TpoMzOxaFtwqZua2Bm4makIM7OzMAjoaCqYuxooSUqJALjs7o4yVpbowvzSUy87KqSwmxQfnsrPISyFzWeWAXCkpMaBVIC4bmCsOdgiUKwh3JojLgAQ4ZCE0AMm2D29tZwe6AAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)](http://www.conan.io/source/debug_assert/1.0/Manu343726/testing)

debug_assert is a simple, C++11, header-only library that provides a very flexible `DEBUG_ASSERT()` macro.
How many times did you write an assertion macro yourself, because `assert()` is controlled globally and cannot be enabled for certain parts of the program only?
This library solves the problem by providing a flexible, modular assertion macro.

## Features

* No dependencies. It only requires `std::abort()` and - unless `DEBUG_ASSERT_NO_STDIO` is defined - `std::fprintf()`.
* Single, small header file that just needs to be copied into your own project.
* Customizable assertion handling - assertion failure will call a user-defined function, with user-defined arguments.
* Modular - enable or disable assertions for different parts of the same program.
* Support for levels - give levels to your assertion macro and only enable certain levels of assertions.
* Little preprocessor use - just a single assertion macro which is needed to get the stringified expression and source location. Enabling/Disabling is controlled by compile time programming instead of preprocessor conditionals.
* Fast - even though a disabled assertion will still expand to something,
there is no overhead with even basic optimizations enabled and very little without optimization (just the code to read `__FILE__` and `__LINE__`). To be precise: It will only evaluate the assertion expression if the assertion is enabled!

## Overview

The basic usage of the library is like so:

```cpp
DEBUG_ASSERT(1 + 1 == 2, my_module{}); // basic
DEBUG_ASSERT(1 + 1 == 2, my_module{}, debug_assert::level<2>{}); // with level
```

Where `my_module` is a user-defined tag type that will both control the assertion level and the handler code.
It looks like this:

```cpp
struct my_module
: debug_assert::default_handler, // use the default handler
  debug_assert::set_level<-1> // level -1, i.e. all assertions, 0 would mean none, 1 would be level 1, 2 level 2 or lower,...
{};
```

A module handler must have `static` function `handle()` that takes a `debug_assert::source_location`, the stringified expression and any additional arguments you pass to `DEBUG_ASSERT()` (besides the `debug_assert::level`).

See `example.cpp` for more information and [read the blogpost](https://foonathan.github.io/blog/2016/09/16/assertions.html).

### CMake

For convenience you can also use CMake to setup the include directory and have options that map to the customizable macros.
Simple call `add_subdirectory(path/to/debug_assert)` and then `target_link_libraries(my_target PUBLIC debug_assert)`.
It will not actually build something, only setup the flags.
Note that it will not enable C++11 support.
The options are named like the macros.

## Documentation

> Generated by [standardese](https://github.com/foonathan/standardese).

{{ standardese_doc $file commonmark }}

## Acknowledgements

Thanks a lot to [@Manu343726](https://github.com/Manu343726) and [@verri](https://github.com/verri).
